# Diabetes
Predicting Diabetes
Diabetes occurs when the level of glucose (sugar) in your blood is excessively high. This condition emerges either due to insufficient insulin production by the pancreas or the body’s inadequate response to insulin. While diabetes is predominantly a chronic condition, it can be effectively managed through medication and lifestyle modifications. An intriguing question is the extent to which statistical methods can be used in predicting diabetes. While Meng et al. (2013) evaluated the differences between logistic regression, artificial neural networks, and decision tree models in predicting diabetes using an experimental dataset, Dinh et al. (2019) assessed this effectiveness using the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data from 1999-2014.

This project endeavors to employ logistic regression, using data from the NHANES, to ascertain whether the effectiveness of logistic modeling in predicting diabetes is statistically different when extrapolated to a specific time period (2011-2012). Due to the health shocks immediately following the Great Recession (Margerison-Zilko 2016), these results are a necessary “check” on the preexisting literature. Additionally, we experiment with various bundles of independent variables, providing an expansive set of tools for real-world application. While this study does not generate new statistical methods for evaluating diabetes, we believe it serves as a positive contribution to the existing literature.
